README.md, before:

# Arduino-NANO-R4-CommandLine_Parser
Arduino: Nano-R4CommandLine_Parser

An example of a simple ASCII commandline- interface (CLI) with elementary File- functions. Gives a little more comfort on Commandline. Supports VT100-Terminal emulation (like TeraTerm, PUTTY, GTKTerm and other) on the USB-Port. 

This project keeps a set of helpful functions for the Arduino NANO-R4 with SD-Card.
![IMG_0578_comp](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/54898bd9-174e-4ba1-9f40-50ecfe74a7fa)
Picture shows an UNO-R4 minima with SD-Card, Battery bufferd RTC, BME680 and 20x4 LCD on I2C- bus.
The NANO-R4 will work in the the same hardeware envirement

The software supports the CPU internal RTC function and 4ticks/sec callback function for real-time applications.
The NANO-R4 is clocked by a Quarz- reference and the CPU-RTC is working well - as better as the UNO-R4 CPU-RTC!
In an equal form there is a 100 Hz GPT- Timer running on callback event.

**AUTO** - shows the ADC 0-3 voltage (Average of 10 measurements)

**CD**, **MD**, **RD** - directory handling

**CONFIG** - shows the SPI- configuration

**COPY** - copy a file from => to filename

**DEL** - removing file 

**DIR** - shows the directory

**DATE** and **TIME** - get and set time/date value

**TYPE** - list an ASCII-File on your terminal

**CLS** - clear the VT100 screen and set the cursor position top-left

**TEMP** - not implemented

**VER** - shows some software informations

**VOL** - list the SD-Card information

**XREC** - XModem-CRC upload to uC uC SD-Card

**XTRAN** - XModem download from uC uC SD-Card

**YREC** - YMODEM-1K CRC upload to uC SD-Card (multible file transfer is possible)

**Needed:**
-	the SD-Card library must be available

**Old-School X/Y-Modem File Transfer**
Most of the Terminal emulations supports X-Modem File transfer. I think, it is helpful to transfer some files to/from the uC without stopping the full environment or removing the SD-Card from the uC.
The XModem transfer from uC to Host is the only implementation. Multiple filetransfers in this direction could be helpful, but each file must be defined on the commandline like XModem. 
Transfer rate: In the 128Byte-Transfermode the transfer rate is more then 20kByte/s and up to 70kByte/s in CRC-Mode.

The YModem transfer from host to uC reached transfer rates 23-60 kByte/s in my tests. The XModem transfer rate is 6-10 kByte/s in 128Byte mode and 20-50 kByte/s in 1k-CRC.
(I don't know why the YModem transfer is as faster as the same XModem 1k-CRC transfer)

Commit message:

Update README with XModem and YModem transfer details
Clarified the implementation details of XModem and YModem file transfers, including transfer rates and command line requirements.

README.md, after:

# Arduino-NANO-R4-CommandLine_Parser
Arduino: Nano-R4CommandLine_Parser

An example of a simple ASCII commandline- interface (CLI) with elementary File- functions. Gives a little more comfort on Commandline. Supports VT100-Terminal emulation (like TeraTerm, PUTTY, GTKTerm and other) on the USB-Port. 

This project keeps a set of helpful functions for the Arduino NANO-R4 with SD-Card.
![IMG_0578_comp](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/54898bd9-174e-4ba1-9f40-50ecfe74a7fa)
Picture shows an UNO-R4 minima with SD-Card, Battery bufferd RTC, BME680 and 20x4 LCD on I2C- bus.
The NANO-R4 will work in the the same hardeware envirement

The software supports the CPU internal RTC function and 4ticks/sec callback function for real-time applications.
The NANO-R4 is clocked by a Quarz- reference and the CPU-RTC is working well - as better as the UNO-R4 CPU-RTC!
In an equal form there is a 100 Hz GPT- Timer running on callback event.

**AUTO** - shows the ADC 0-3 voltage (Average of 10 measurements)

**CD**, **MD**, **RD** - directory handling

**CONFIG** - shows the SPI- configuration

**COPY** - copy a file from => to filename

**DEL** - removing file 

**DIR** - shows the directory

**DATE** and **TIME** - get and set time/date value

**TYPE** - list an ASCII-File on your terminal

**CLS** - clear the VT100 screen and set the cursor position top-left

**TEMP** - not implemented

**VER** - shows some software informations

**VOL** - list the SD-Card information

**XREC** - XModem-CRC upload to uC uC SD-Card

**XTRAN** - XModem download from uC uC SD-Card

**YREC** - YMODEM-1K CRC upload to uC SD-Card (multible file transfer is possible)

**Needed:**
-	the SD-Card library must be available

**Old-School X/Y-Modem File Transfer**
Most of the Terminal emulations supports X-Modem File transfer. I think, it is helpful to transfer some files to/from the uC without stopping the full environment or removing the SD-Card from the uC.

From uC to host: The XModem transfer in 128Byte/Checksum and 1kB/CRC was implemented. YModem multiple filetransfers in this direction could be helpful but not implemented.each file must be defined on the commandline like XModem. 
Transfer rate: In the 128Byte-Transfermode the transfer rate is more then 20kByte/s and up to 70kByte/s in CRC-Mode.

The YModem transfer from host to uC reached transfer rates 23-60 kByte/s in my tests. The XModem transfer rate is 6-10 kByte/s in 128Byte mode and 20-50 kByte/s in 1k-CRC.
(I don't know why the YModem transfer is as faster as the same XModem 1k-CRC transfer)
